# ASSESSMENT-PROJECT
MADE USING FRONT END TECHNOLOGIES


We have developed “Afoodrecipezengine” a web based application which is all-in-one platform that helps users to select the ingredients he/she wants and view recipes that contain those professional ingredients like vegetables, snacks , non-vegetarian dishes , vegetarian dishes and many other food services which also serve directly at the door step. We used HTML for basic coding and CSS for designing our web pages. JavaScript is used to add functionality to our web pages. JQuery is a fast, small, and feature-rich JavaScript library makes things like HTML document traversal and manipulation, event handling, animation, and AJAX has been used to load data in the background that works across a multitude of browsers and display it on the web page, without reloading the whole page. Bootstrap, a web framework, is used to clarify the development of informative web pages. The primary purpose of adding it to a web project is to apply bootstrap’s choices of colour, size, font and layout to that project. We also designed various pages for the meals and cocktails and the user can search according to his own . We also used contact page so that any person who has some doubts regarding recipes or anything can contact us sharing their personal information like name, email and the subject in which they can write their personal query and submit it through the web page of our site. We also created a search box through which a user can search his/her own recipe which they are keen of. When we search for any food item, the recipe for the related (food item) is displayed on the screen. The youtube link of the same is provided below the recipe. We created a separate page for the beers section where user can enter any name of the brand and the specific brand will contain Tagline in which the name of the brand will be mentioned and the details will be specified within the description. For better understanding, we have created one section Brewers-Tips which will include the tips to prepare the dish better. In the user part can choose the service recipe he/she wants to. The recipe details page opens where user can read all the details about the recipe as said. The specified date is been given where the user can see on which day the food recipe is been searched on.
      Food Recipes is the service which is spread all over the worldwide. We have developed an online platform that lists & books various meals and drinks with better and easy ordering experience. The aim is to provide recipe which is fully based on the ingredients available to them   At Food Recipe Search Engine, we introduce you a platform that not only helps you search for different meals and drinks but also saves your time and money by saying a “BIG” discounts to various items.  The target mainly covers the segment for the people of the society those who want to spend less and get a quality food. Any age group of the people can order their meals from anywhere through an online platform.  We are also looking for funding to expand our recipes and provide the consumers the best recipes that they are willing to take.  The objectives of the same includes- To help the user decide a recipe to cook from the ingredients available with him/her and To guide the user to the recipe based on the user’s choices and needs.   It also includes saving the user money and time by referencing cook books and buying ingredients he/she does not need.   
      The main aim of the application is to provide recipes to the consumers based on the ingredients already available with them, unlike other recipe providing applications where the ingredients available with the consumer is not taken into consideration. The objectives of our project are as follows:   To help the user decide a recipe to cook from the ingredients available with him/her.   To guide the user to the recipe based on the user’s choices and needs.   To help save the user money and time by tediously referencing cook books and buying ingredients he/she does not need. 
      The application has three major functionalities in this application. They are browsing recipes based on search term or alphabetically. Search a cocktail based on search term or  alphabetically and searching a beer based on search term or  alphabetically. This also shows a random meal, cocktail and beer on there respective pages. My project aims to combine the features like search based on ingredients, suggestions for similar recipes, and images for the ingredients under one search engine and provide an intuitive interface for the same. I explored different clustering algorithms to find an efficient algorithm that can be used to cluster recipe data matching user's queries. As part of this project, I also built custom search engine wrappers around existing search engines to help users search images of ingredients. Search engines have made access to information easy. One only needs to get connected to the internet to get the information one needs. When searching for cooking recipes, sometimes user may prefer to search based on ingredients. It will be more helpful if the search also suggests similar recipes. The user sometimes may not know what an ingredient is just from its name. So images of the ingredients displayed beside the written name of the ingredient will be helpful to the user. In this project, I am working on a recipe suggestion tool, which suggests similar recipes. Users can also search based on ingredients. I am also providing the facility for the user to view the images of the ingredients.  
The goal of this project is to suggest recipes to the user. For this, a database of recipes needs to be maintained. A web search engine can be used to retrieve the required information from the web. The study of a search engine would be helpful in understanding how it works and how the data can be retrieved and maintained in the database.   

From a proper analysis of positive points and constraints on the component, it can be safely concluded that the product is a moderately efficient GUI based component. This application is working properly and meeting most of the requirements which allows the user to select the ingredients he/she wants and view recipes that contain those ingredients. These ingredients can be sorted and filtered to the user's convenience. The user can also view recipes directly and select the one. Recipes can be also added by the user along with new ingredients. The recipes also show nutritional facts that can help the user make a better choice. This application was developed to solve one of the problems most people have, what could be made from the available ingredients. The application solves this and many other problems while also providing the user with nutritional knowledge about their food and the essential food recipes.  
Key Learnings:   
 A better understanding of the recipes going on currently and the target of the project to learn practical experience and understanding knowledge.  Adopting better variety of instructions for meals and ordering skills.  Developed planning skills that plans a menu and grocery list which helps in explaining smart food choices with different mindsets.  Theoretical knowledge along with the practical implementation of the same helps in better understanding of the same.  Asking thought-provoking questions about food recipe choices and other activities. Also somewhere developing the conversations that teaches the child to carry a thoughtful mindset for the meals.  
Problems Faced:  
 Managing team member with different mindsets during the survey.  Keeping myself motivated even when some of the mentors had a different approach to my idea.  Finding out the exact solution of the idea and implementing it practically.  Managing work and topics that was divided amongst us equally. 
